The Backup Training Corporation (The Backup) operated for approximately 10 years, providing professional, accredited continuing education for law enforcement. I was responsible for the initial prototype that led to a $50M first-round funding seed for the new startup. I hired and trained the entire engineering and content creation teams, managing and mentoring staff in a completely new field—online education. With this initial staff and round of funding, we built what became the first and only product line for the company. They continued to sell the product and certifications for many years after I had moved on to other opportunities.

The Backup is where I encountered my first pivotal, career-defining moment. Leading twenty-seven staff, I produced the first online college-accredited, post-graduate continuing education courses in the US, giving every police officer in the country access to accredited training on their schedule. The objective was more than just creating a technology solution, which had challenges; the goal was to demonstrate to colleges and universities that online education is legitimate. Going into the process, multiple regional universities insisted that they would "never" grant accreditation to online education. Within two years, I produced over fifty 8-hour, regionally accredited courses, proving that online education is viable. Now, over 4,000 post-secondary institutions provide online degree programs for distance learners. I learned from this experience that "never" is a term experts use to describe things they are uneducated about. With technology, anything is possible if you possess an endless supply of time and money; however, a creative approach to a complex problem sometimes leads to an incredible outcome.
