The [National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP)](https://nces.ed.gov/nationsreportcard/) is a longitudinal scientific study that is a key part of the US census. Given that the assessment examines changes over time in education, any changes to the individual assessments or delivery platform is a fundamentally tricky challenge. Managing these changes involved communication and cross-functional team management across multiple companies and hundreds of experts. In this role, I led research and expertly managed the relationship with [NCES](https://nces.ed.gov/) as a primary point of contact and client manager.

After being awarded a $50M+ contract, where I was a primary author and served as a leader on the transition team, I moved into a new role as an R&D software architect. Initially, my primary objective was to build a small team and design a replacement implementation for the existing national assessment delivery platform. The previous vendor developed the existing platform with many fundamental flaws, requiring a complete redesign. I was able to lead a small internal team of 5 in the creation of a new innovative design system. This design system provides a robust implementation that guides the UI/UX for the assessment delivery platform. Additionally, I authored and managed several key scientific studies necessary to support the intended changes to the assessment.

As a routine part of my role, I had planned a trip to Washington, D.C., to perform a presentation to the Department of Education. I never gave this presentation in person, as it was abruptly canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Even during the pandemic, I continued as the lead software architect and head of platform research for NAEP; however, the work pivoted dramatically when it was clear that in-person testing would be impossible. Leading my small, dedicated research team, I played a key role in successfully guiding the NCES staff in understanding and creating a multi-year plan – that has been fully implemented to bring the national assessment online, both on program-owned and school-based equipment. Leveraging my ability to communicate complex technical problems and lead teams across multiple organizations to work collaboratively in creating a solution was a key defining moment in my growth as a professional.
